# Write Documentation

You can document your application and components by writing markdown ending in `.md` and `.svx`. Kitbook relies on [MDSvex](https://mdsvex.pngwn.io/) so you can also include Svelte components in your markdown. To get started, you must add the necessary [MDSvex](https://mdsvex.pngwn.io/) imports and configuration into your `svelte.config.js`:

```js twoslash title="svelte.config.js" {2,5,7}
import { vitePreprocess } from '@sveltejs/kit/vite'
import { KITBOOK_MDSVEX_CONFIG, MDSVEX_EXTENSIONS, mdsvex } from 'kitbook/plugins/mdsvex'

const config = {
  extensions: ['.svelte', ...MDSVEX_EXTENSIONS],
  preprocess: [
    mdsvex(KITBOOK_MDSVEX_CONFIG),
    vitePreprocess(),
  ],
  // ...
}

export default config
```

*In the future, we might use `svelte-markdown` to automatically provide markdown support for those who don't need to use Svelte components within their markdown. Then the above step would not be needed.*

For general documentation (like this page you're reading now), you can create a folder with any name under your `/src` folder and begin writing documentation in markdown. This Kitbook has a `docs` folder, which is where this file exists as can be seen in the sidebar navigation.

## Component Documentation

To document a component titled `Button.svelte` add a sibling file titled `Button.md` or `Button.svx` and begin writing. Your documentation will automatically be included in the same page as any variants and compositions you've written for that component.

## Index Page

By default Kitbook will display your project's README.md file as its home page, but you can override this by using a `src/index.md` or `src/index.svx` file.

## Naming Conventions

Name files and folders according to how you want them shown in the sidebar. Alphabetically `Get Started` comes after `Button` but you can use an initial number followed by a hyphen to update the sort order as seen here:
- `1-get-started.md`, displayed first as `Get Started`
- `2-button.svelte`, displayed second as `Button`
  
Folder naming follows the same conventions. `0-components/` will show up as `Components` and be placed before `1-about/` (displayed as `About`).

## Customizing [MDSvex](https://mdsvex.pngwn.io/) 

If you dig into the source code behind the MDSvex config you just added to your `svelte.config.js` file, you'll notice the presence of a few rehype plugins to help with links, and shiki-twoslash for code highlighting. If you want to process your markdown differently you can pass your own config to the `mdsvex` plugin.

*Do note that if you use an MDSvex layout file then you can't use `lang='ts'` in your mdsvex files as MDSvex does not support that.*

## Convenient links

You know enough to get started with documentation, but if you want to supercharge your writing abilities, you'll definitely want to learn how to add [[6-easy-wikilinks]].


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[3-mdsvex]: 3-customizations/3-mdsvex.md "Customize MDSvex"
[6-easy-wikilinks]: 6-easy-wikilinks.md "Easy Wikilinks"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"